# Lecture One - SQL intorduction - Part one

> Joe L, 40417692

---

## What is a database

> An organised collection of data.
> A shared, integrated computer structure that stores a collection of end-user data, Metadata or data about data through which the end-user data are integrated and managed.

SQL belongs to relational databases. Each vendor has a slightly different implementation. The Language SQL is fundimentally the same in each dialect. The Vendor try and encourage users to exploit the unique features of their implementation.

## SELECT

Three parts to SELECT command:

- Determines which columns.
- Determines which rows.
- Determines which table to use.

```SQL
SELECT name, population FROM world WHERE continent='Europe';
```

## WHERE

The WHERE clause is optional. You can include any conditions - they should be Boolean expressions. The condition usually involves the columns of the table.

```SQL
SELECT name
From world
WHERE capital = 'London';

SELECT name
FROM world
WHERE continent = 'Asia'
AND name LIKE 'J%';
```

You can use operators such as:

Greater than `>`
Less than `<`
Greater than or equal to `>=`
Less than or equal to `<=`
Greater than or less than `<>`

```SQL
AND
OR
NOT
LIKE
IN
BETWEEN
```

---

## The relational model

### Data model components

Component | Description | Examples
--- | --- | ---
Entities | The important things in the real world that need to be modelled | People, places, Objects, events, etc.
Attributes | Individual items of data ascociated with an entity | Name, national insurance number, weight, date of manufacture
Relationships | Ways in which entites are connected | A is part of B, A lives in B, A produces B, A takes place in B, etc.
Constraints | Rules which place limits on the data that is allowed | Every A must have a B, Only future dates are allowed, etc.
